---
layout: page
title: 2023-09-20
permalink: /2023-09-20/
---
2023-09-20

### Currying etc

Learned about curried functions, and tried using them. Currying allows you to deconstruct a function that takes multiple arguments into multiple functions that take fewer arguments:

```typescript
  someFunction(a, b, c);
  // can become:
  const someFunction: (a) => (b) => (c) => {};
```

And the important difference between `<SomeComponent property={aComputedValue()} />` vs `<OtherComponent property={() => aCallback()}`, as well as returning

```typescript
return {
    something, // a shortcut - what is this called in the language?
    anotherThing: aComputedValue(),
    callMeLater: () => aCallback(),
}
```

There's also `() => statement` is the same as `() => { return statement; }`, and these are just things I picked up and sometimes don't really know the names for - some of them are syntactic sugar I'm sure, but it would help very much if I knew what they were called, e.g. destructuring, spread operator, etc

[typescript docs](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)

[js destructuring assignment](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment)


### On cover letters
I was watching a video about the "brandification" of a person and the guy said that Leonardo da Vinci was one of the first people to create a cover letter to get sponsors because his work was otherwise unknown.

In a similar way, this is why people need portfolios -- so that others know of the work that we are capable of. It is just so f*cked that to be considered good in such a competitive world, you have to be good at not only the thing you do, but also at being a brand and being seen.

The thing with YouTube, TikTok, Instagram, and platforms that have algorithms about being seen is that the algorithms reward having a niche and talking about the same stuff all the time. That is not me, because I am a human person and I don't only have one interest I'm not going to try and build a following around me and such a small part of who I am.

> Programming is just work, and it's just something I'm good at, but that doesn't mean that that's all I will ever write about. 

### My talent, maybe
Perhaps the reason that I'm good at programming is because I'm good at a lot of things and this is just one of the things that I picked up; I didn't always work in and React Native. I used to be a an assembly programmer, a game programmer in C++, an Android developer, an enterprise Java developer, an AngularJS developer, Spring and now I find myself here -- a senior React Native / TS dev. I'm not saying that I'm THE BEST at all those things, but I know -- within me, impostor syndrome be damned, that I am good at what I do. Took me a long time to get here. Perhaps my talent is gaining understanding quickly. It remains to be seen if teaching how to understand, how to learn, is one of my talents.